The Keck Science Department serves students from Pitzer, Claremont McKenna, and Scripps Colleges. This intercollegiate arrangement allows each college to provide far greater opportunities in science than it could offer alone.
Keck Science offers over a dozen majors, many of which build upon the multidisciplinary nature of the department and of The Claremont Colleges.
Laboratory and field investigations in courses and independent research are an important part of the curriculum. Discussion of original research papers often launches a short experiment as part of introductory or advanced courses, and Senior Thesis Research serves as a capstone on a science major&#8217;s education. Most senior science majors work closely with their faculty advisers to complete year-long laboratory, field, or theoretical investigations. Endowed funds from a variety of sources provide Summer Research Fellowships to students who want to conduct research during the summer months.
The Keck Science Department is housed in the W.M. Keck Science Center which provides students with a spacious, modern facility for study and research in the sciences. The center includes classrooms, laboratories, and student-faculty research areas and is equipped with state-of-the-art instruments that are available for students to use. The science center also houses the Roberts Environmental Center where students work in teams on applied problems in environmental science and policy.
All Keck Science faculty hold doctoral degrees from leading universities and remain active researchers in their fields. Faculty members and students work side-by-side in the department&#8217;s many research laboratories and in the field. Together, faculty and students regularly co-author research publications and present their work at scientific conferences. In addition to teaching courses and mentoring students in research, Keck Science faculty members serve as close advisers for students both in terms of shaping their college careers and in preparation for life after graduation from college.
Biochemistry
Biology
Chemistry
Human Biology
Management-Engineering
Molecular Biology
Neuroscience
Organismal Biology
Physics
Science and Management
