English, Foreign Languages, and Reading
Visual and Performing Arts
Music
History, Economics, and General Studies
Human Services and Consumer Sciences (HSCS)
Psychology
Sociology
Social Work
Bachelor of Science (B.S.) in Electrical and Computer Engineering, Computer Engineering Concentration
Biology
Chemistry
Computer Science
Engineering
Industrial Technologies (IT)
Mathematics
Physics
Transportation Studies
Bachelor of Science (B.S) in Environmental Health
Year Plan in Environmental Health
Bachelor of Science (B.S) in Health Administration
Year Plan in Health Administration
Bachelor of Science (B.S) in Health Information Management
Year Plan in Health Information Management
Bachelor of Science (B.S) in Clinical Laboratory Sciences
Year Plan in Clinical Laboratory Sciences
Bachelor of Science (B.S) in Respiratory Therapy
Year Plan in Respiratory Therapy
Bachelor of Arts (B.A.) in Speech Communication - Organizational Concentration
Bachelor of Arts (B.A.) in Speech Communication - Intercultural-Interpersonal Concentration
Bachelor of Arts (B.A.) in Journalism - Print Journalism
Bachelor of Arts (B.A.) in Journalism - Advertising and Public Relations
Bachelor of Arts (B.A.) in Journalism - Broadcast Journalism
Bachelor of Arts (B.A.) in Radio, Television and Film (with Minor)
Bachelor of Arts (B.A.) in Radio, Television and Film (without Minor
Bachelor of Arts (B.A.) in  Entertainment and Recording Industry Management (ERM)
Bachelor of Business Administration (B.B.A.) in Finance
Bachelor of Business Administration (B.B.A.) in Management
Bachelor of Business Administration (B.B.A.) in Marketing
Bachelor of Science (B.S.) in Public Affairs
Year Plan in&#160;Public Affairs
Bachelor of Science (B.S.) in Administration of Justice
Year Plan in Administration of Justice
Bachelor of Arts (B.A.) in Political Science
Year Plan in Political Science
Bachelor of Business Administration (B.B.A.) in Accounting
Pharmaceutical Sciences
Pharmacy Practice
Health Sciences
Accounting
Curriculum and Instruction (Bachelor of Science in Interdisciplinary Studies (BSIS))
Communications
English, Foreign Languages, and Reading
Public Affairs
Pharmaceutical Sciences
Biology
