Course: IDS.012[J] Statistics, Computation and Applications  
Description: Hands-on analysis of data demonstrates the interplay between statistics and computation. Includes four modules, each centered on a specific data set, and introduced by a domain expert. Provides instruction in specific, relevant analysis methods and corresponding algorithmic aspects. Potential modules may include medical data, gene regulation, social networks, finance data (time series), traffic, transportation, weather forecasting, policy, or industrial web applications. Projects address a large-scale data analysis question. Students taking graduate version complete additional assignments. Enrollment limited; priority to Statistics and Data Science minors, and to juniors and seniors.  

Course: IDS.013[J] Statistical Thinking and Data Analysis  
Description: See description under subject   15.075[J]  

Course: IDS.014[J] Fundamentals of Statistics  
Description: See description under subject   18.650[J]  

Course: IDS.045[J] System Safety  
Description: See description under subject   16.63[J]  

Course: IDS.055[J] Science, Technology, and Public Policy  
Description: See description under subject   17.309[J]  

Course: IDS.060[J] Environmental Law, Policy, and Economics: Pollution Prevention and Control  
Description: Reviews and analyzes federal and state regulation of air and water pollution, hazardous waste, green-house gas emissions, and the production and use of toxic chemicals. Analyzes pollution as an economic problem and the failure of markets. Explores the role of science and economics in legal decisions. Emphasizes use of legal mechanisms and alternative approaches (such as economic incentives and voluntary approaches) to control pollution and encourage chemical accident and pollution prevention. Focuses on the major federal legislation, the underlying administrative system, and the common law in analyzing environmental policy, economic consequences, and the role of the courts. Discusses classical pollutants and toxic industrial chemicals, green-house gas emissions, community right-to-know, and environmental justice. Develops basic legal skills: how to read/understand cases, regulations, and statutes. Students taking graduate version are expected to explore the subject in greater depth.   

Course: IDS.061[J] Regulation of Chemicals, Radiation, and Biotechnology  
Description: Focuses on policy design and evaluation in the regulation of hazardous substances and processes. Includes risk assessment, industrial chemicals, pesticides, food contaminants, pharmaceuticals, radiation and radioactive wastes, product safety, workplace hazards, indoor air pollution, biotechnology, victims' compensation, and administrative law. Health and economic consequences of regulation, as well as its potential to spur technological change, are discussed for each regulatory regime. Students taking the graduate version are expected to explore the subject in greater depth.   

Course: IDS.062[J] Global Environmental Negotiations  
Description: Practical introduction to global environmental negotiations designed for science and engineering students. Covers basic issues in international negotiations, such as North-South conflict, implementation and compliance, trade, and historical perspective on global environmental treaties. Offers hands-on practice in developing and interpreting international agreements through role-play simulations and observation of ongoing climate change negotiating processes. Students taking graduate version complete additional assignments.   

Course: IDS.063[J] People and the Planet: Environmental Governance and Science  
Description: See description under subject   12.387[J]  

Course: IDS.064 Engineering, Economics and Regulation of the Electric Power Sector  
Description: Provides an in-depth and interdisciplinary look at electric power systems, focusing on regulation as the link among engineering, economic, legal, and environmental viewpoints. Topics include electricity markets, incentive regulation of network utilities, retail competition, tariff design, distributed generation, rural electrification, multinational electricity markets, environmental impacts, and the future of utilities and strategic sustainability issues under both traditional and competitive regulatory frameworks. Background in policy, microeconomics, or engineering desirable. Students taking graduate version complete additional assignments.   

Course: IDS.131[J] Statistics, Computation and Applications  
Description: Hands-on analysis of data demonstrates the interplay between statistics and computation. Includes four modules, each centered on a specific data set, and introduced by a domain expert. Provides instruction in specific, relevant analysis methods and corresponding algorithmic aspects. Potential modules may include medical data, gene regulation, social networks, finance data (time series), traffic, transportation, weather forecasting, policy, or industrial web applications. Projects address a large-scale data analysis question. Students taking graduate version complete additional assignments. Limited enrollment; priority to Statistics and Data Science minors and to juniors and seniors.  

Course: IDS.136[J] Graphical Models: A Geometric, Algebraic, and Combinatorial Perspective  
Description: Provides instruction in the geometric, algebraic and combinatorial perspective on graphical models. Presents methods for learning the underlying graph and inferring its parameters. Topics include exponential families, duality theory, conic duality, polyhedral geometry, undirected graphical models, Bayesian networks, Markov properties, total positivity of distributions, hidden variables, and tensor decompositions.   

Course: IDS.145[J] Data Mining: Finding the Models and Predictions that Create Value  
Description: See description under subject   15.062[J]  

Course: IDS.147[J] Statistical Learning and Data Mining  
Description: See description under subject   15.077[J]  

Course: IDS.160[J] Mathematical Statistics (New)  
Description: See description under subject   9.521[J]  

Course: IDS.190 Doctoral Seminar in Statistics and Data Science  
Description: Interdisciplinary seminar explores diverse topics in statistics and data science. Restricted to students in the Interdisciplinary Doctoral Program in Statistics.  

Course: IDS.200[J] Optimization Methods  
Description: See description under subject   15.093[J]  

Course: IDS.250[J] The Theory of Operations Management  
Description: See description under subject   15.764[J]  

Course: IDS.305[J] Business and Operations Analytics  
Description: Provides instruction on identifying, evaluating, and capturing business analytics opportunities that create value. Also provides basic instruction in analytics methods and case study analysis of organizations that successfully deployed these techniques.   

Course: IDS.330 Real Options for Product and Systems Design  
Description: Focuses on implementation of flexibility (real options) in the design of products and systems. Applies the methods presented in   IDS.333  : recognition of uncertainty, identification of best opportunities for flexibility, and valuation of these options and their effective implementation. Students' work culminates in a dynamic business plan for design and deployment of products, start-ups, ongoing management of operations, or policy plans. Students bring their own project concept, which they will analyze during the class. Useful complement to thesis or research projects.   

Course: IDS.332 Engineering Systems Analysis for Design  
Description: Practical-oriented subject that builds upon theory and methods and culminates in extended application. Covers methods to identify, value, and implement flexibility in design (real options). Topics include definition of uncertainties, simulation of performance for scenarios, screening models to identify desirable flexibility, decision analysis, and multidimensional economic evaluation. Students demonstrate proficiency through an extended application to a system design of their choice. Complements research or thesis projects. Meets with   IDS.333   first half of term. Enrollment limited.  

Course: IDS.333 Risk and Decision Analysis  
Description: Focuses on design choices and decisions under uncertainty. Topics include identification and description of uncertainties using probability distributions; the calculation of commensurate measures of value, such as expected net present values; Monte Carlo simulation and risk analysis; and the use of decision analysis to explore alternative strategies and identify optimal initial choices. Presents applied analysis of practical examples from a variety of engineering systems using spreadsheet and decision analysis software. Meets with   IDS.332   first half of term.   

Course: IDS.336[J] Systems Architecting Applied to Enterprises  
Description: Focuses on principles and practices for architecting new and evolving sociotechnical enterprises. Includes reading and discussions of enterprise theory, contemporary challenges, and case studies of evolving enterprises. Covers frameworks and methods for ecosystem analysis, stakeholder analysis, architecture design and evaluation, and implementation strategies. Students work in small teams on projects to design a future architecture for a selected real-world enterprise.   

Course: IDS.337[J] Aerospace Biomedical and Life Support Engineering  
Description: See description under subject   16.423[J]  

Course: IDS.338[J] Multidisciplinary Design Optimization  
Description: Systems modeling for design and optimization. Selection of design variables, objective functions and constraints. Overview of principles, methods and tools in multidisciplinary design optimization (MDO). Subsystem identification, development and interface design. Design of experiments (DOE). Review of linear (LP) and non-linear (NLP) constrained optimization formulations. Scalar versus vector optimization problems.Karush-Kuhn-Tucker (KKT) conditions of optimality, Lagrange multipliers, adjoints, gradient search methods, sensitivity analysis, geometric programming, simulated annealing, genetic algorithms and particle swarm optimization. Constraint satisfaction problems and isoperformance. Non-dominance and Pareto frontiers. Surrogate models and multifidelity optimization strategies. System design for value. Students execute a term project in small teams related to their area of interest.   

Course: IDS.339[J] Space Systems Engineering  
Description: See description under subject   16.89[J]  

Course: IDS.340[J] System Safety Concepts  
Description: See description under subject   16.863[J]  

Course: IDS.341[J] Concepts in the Engineering of Software  
Description: See description under subject   16.355[J]  

Course: IDS.345[J] Digital Evolution: Managing Web 3.0  
Description: See description under subject   15.565[J]  

Course: IDS.410 Modeling and Assessment for Policy  
Description: Explores how scientific information and quantitative models can be used to inform policy decision-making. Develops an understanding of quantitative modeling techniques and their role in the policy process through case studies and interactive activities. Addresses issues such as analysis of scientific assessment processes, uses of integrated assessment models, public perception of quantitative information, methods for dealing with uncertainties, and design choices in building policy-relevant models. Examples focus on models and information used in Earth system governance.   

Course: IDS.411 Concepts and Research in Technology and Policy  
Description: Core integrative subject, with substantive participation from a series of guest faculty lecturers, examines key technology-policy concepts. Explores alternative framings of roles of technology in policy, emphasizing the implications of these alternatives upon problem-solving in the area. Exercises prepare students to apply these concepts in the framing of their thesis research. Preference to first-year students in the Technology and Policy Program.  

Course: IDS.412[J] Science, Technology, and Public Policy  
Description: See description under subject   17.310[J]  

Course: IDS.435[J] Law, Technology, and Public Policy  
Description: Examines the relationship between law and technological change, and the ways in which law, economics, and technological change shape public policy. Addresses how law can be used to influence and guide technological change; responses of the legal system to environmental, safety, social and ethical problems created by new or existing technology; how law and markets interact to limit or encourage technological development; and how law can affect distribution of wealth and social justice. Covers climate change; genetic engineering; telecommunications; industrial automation; the effect of health, safety, and environmental regulation on technological innovation; the impacts of intellectual property law on innovation and equity; pharmaceuticals; nanotechnology; cost/benefit analysis as a decision tool; public participation in governmental decisions affecting science and technology; corporate influence on technology; and law and economics as competing paradigms to encourage sustainability. Permission of instructor required for freshmen and sophomores.  

Course: IDS.436[J] Technology, Law, and the Working Environment  
Description: Addresses relationship between technology-related problems and the law applicable to work environment. National Labor Relations Act, Occupational Safety and Health Act. Toxic Substances Control Act, state worker's compensation, and suits by workers in the courts discussed. Problems related to occupational health and safety, collective bargaining as a mechanism for altering technology in the workplace, job alienation, productivity, and the organization of work addressed. Prior courses or experience in the environmental, public health, or law-related areas.   

Course: IDS.437[J] Technology, Globalization, and Sustainable Development  
Description: Investigates sustainable development, taking a broad view to include not only a healthy economic base, but also a sound environment, stable employment, adequate purchasing power, distributional equity, national self-reliance, and maintenance of cultural integrity. Explores national, multinational, and international political and legal mechanisms to further sustainable development through transformation of the industrial state. Addresses the importance of technological innovation and the financial crisis of 2008.   

Course: IDS.449 Technology Policy Internship Seminar  
Description: Seminar examines what technology policy is in practice. Considers the question of "Who achieves what, when, how, and why?" regarding technology policy. Students who completed summer internships present and dissect their experiences with special reference to specific cases in which they participated.   

Course: IDS.505[J] Engineering, Economics and Regulation of the Electric Power Sector  
Description: Provides an in-depth and interdisciplinary look at electric power systems, focusing on regulation as the link among engineering, economic, legal, and environmental viewpoints. Topics include electricity markets, incentive regulation of network utilities, retail competition, tariff design, distributed generation, rural electrification, multinational electricity markets, environmental impacts, and the future of utilities and strategic sustainability issues under both traditional and competitive regulatory frameworks. Background in policy, microeconomics, or engineering desirable. Students taking graduate version complete additional assignments.   

Course: IDS.521 Energy Systems and Climate Change Mitigation  
Description: Reviews the contributions of energy systems to global greenhouse gasemissions, and the levers for reducing those emissions.Lectures and projects focus on evaluating energysystems against climate policy goals, using performance metrics such as cost,carbonintensity, and others. Student projectsexplore pathways for realizingemissions reduction scenarios. Projects address the climatechange mitigation potential of energy technologies, technological and behavioral changetrajectories, andtechnology and policy portfolios.   

Course: IDS.522 Mapping and Evaluating New Energy Technologies  
Description: Project-based seminar covers recent developments in energy conversion and storage technologies. Merits of alternative technologies are debated based on their environmental performance and cost, and their potential improvement and scalability. Project teams develop quantitative models and interactive visualization tools to inform the future development of these technologies. Models may probe how the impact of a technology depends on assumptions about future advancements in materials or device design. Other projects may develop models for rational design choices (the selection of a particular material or processing technique) based on economic and environmental performance and physical constraints.   

Course: IDS.524[J] People and the Planet: Environmental Histories and Engineering  
Description: See description under subject   11.204[J]  

Course: IDS.525[J] Global Environmental Negotiations  
Description: Practical introduction to global environmental negotiations designed for science and engineering students. Covers basic issues in international negotiations, such as North-South conflict, implementation and compliance, trade, and historical perspective on global environmental treaties. Offers hands-on practice in developing and interpreting international agreements through role-play simulations and observation of ongoing climate change negotiating processes. Students taking graduate version complete additional assignments.   

Course: IDS.526[J] Sustainability Science and Engineering  
Description: Introduces and develops core ideas and concepts in the field of sustainability science and engineering from an engineering systems perspective. Takes an interdisciplinary approach to discuss case studies of sustainability systems research. Exposes students to techniques for sustainability research across engineering, natural and social science disciplines. Term projects focus on applying techniques.   

Course: IDS.540[J] Environmental Law, Policy, and Economics: Pollution Prevention and Control  
Description: Reviews and analyzes federal and state regulation of air and water pollution, hazardous waste, green-house gas emissions, and the production and use of toxic chemicals. Analyzes pollution as an economic problem and the failure of markets. Explores the role of science and economics in legal decisions. Emphasizes use of legal mechanisms and alternative approaches (such as economic incentives and voluntary approaches) to control pollution and encourage chemical accident and pollution prevention. Focuses on the major federal legislation, the underlying administrative system, and the common law in analyzing environmental policy, economic consequences, and the role of the courts. Discusses classical pollutants and toxic industrial chemicals, green-house gas emissions, community right-to-know, and environmental justice. Develops basic legal skills: how to read/understand cases, regulations, and statutes. Students taking graduate version are expected to explore the subject in greater depth.   

Course: IDS.541[J] Regulation of Chemicals, Radiation, and Biotechnology  
Description: Focuses on policy design and evaluation in the regulation of hazardous substances and processes. Includes risk assessment, industrial chemicals, pesticides, food contaminants, pharmaceuticals, radiation and radioactive wastes, product safety, workplace hazards, indoor air pollution, biotechnology, victims' compensation, and administrative law. Health and economic consequences of regulation, as well as its potential to spur technological change, are discussed for each regulator regime. Students taking the graduate version are expected to explore the subject in greater depth.   

Course: IDS.620[J] Principles and Practice of Drug Development  
Description: See description under subject   15.136[J]  

Course: IDS.670[J] Planning and Design of Airport Systems  
Description: See description under subject   1.231[J]  

Course: IDS.700[J] Applied Probability and Stochastic Models  
Description: See description under subject   15.073[J]  

Course: IDS.720[J] Tools for Analysis: Design for Real Estate and Infrastructure Development  
Description: See description under subject   11.434[J]  

Course: IDS.730[J] Logistics Systems  
Description: See description under subject   SCM.260[J]  

Course: IDS.735[J] Supply Chain Planning  
Description: See description under subject   15.762[J]  

Course: IDS.736[J] Manufacturing System and Supply Chain Design  
Description: See description under subject   15.763[J]  

Course: IDS.900 Doctoral Seminar in Social and Engineering Systems  
Description: Introduces doctoral students to IDSS research areas. Preference to first-year students in SES.  

Course: IDS.910 Leadership Development  
Description: Seminar environment created to develop leadership capabilities, and to take advantage of leadership opportunities. An initial Outward Bound experience builds trust, teamwork and communications. Readings and assignments emphasize the characteristics of desired leadership skills. Global leaders participate in the Leadership Lunch series to share their experiences and recommendations. Discussions explore leadership development. Culminates in a personal leadership plan. Restricted to entering students in the Technology and Policy program or instructor permission.  

Course: IDS.950 Independent Study in Data, Systems, and Society  
Description: For graduate students in IDSS. Individualstudy in data, systems, and society. Intended to expose student to expert-level domain material. Supervised by a member of MIT's teaching staff.   

Course: IDS.951 Independent Study in Technology and Policy  
Description: For graduate students in TPP. Individual study in technology and policy. Intended to expose student to expert-level domain material. Supervised by a member of MIT's teaching staff.   

Course: IDS.955 Practical Experience in Data, Systems, and Society  
Description: ForIDSS doctoralstudents participating in off-campusinternshipexperiences in data, systems, and society. Before registering for this subject, students must have an employment offer from a company or organization, must identify aresearch supervisor, and must receive prior approval from the IDSS Academic Office. Upon completion of the experience, student must submit a letter from the employer describing the goals accomplished, along with a substantive final report from the student approved by the MIT supervisor.   

Course: IDS.956 Practical Experience in Technology and Policy  
Description: ForTPPstudents participating in off-campus internship experiences in technology and policy. Before registering for this subject, students must have an employment offer from a company or organization, must identify aresearch supervisor, and must receive prior approval from the TPP Education Office. Upon completion of the internship, student must submit a letter from the employer describing the work accomplished, along with a substantive final report from the student approved by the MIT supervisor.   

Course: IDS.960 Teaching in Data, Systems, and Society  
Description: For Teaching Assistants in IDSS, in cases where teaching assignment is approved for academic credit. Laboratory, tutorial, or classroom teaching under supervision of a faculty member. Credit for this subject may not be used for any degree granted by IDSS.   

Course: IDS.961 Teaching in Technology and Policy  
Description: For Teaching Assistants in TPP, in cases where teaching assignment is approved for academic credit. Laboratory, tutorial, or classroom teaching under supervision of a faculty member. Credit for this subject may not be used for any degree granted by IDSS.   

Course: IDS.970 Research in Data, Systems, and Society  
Description: For Research Assistants in IDSS when assigned research is not used for thesis, but is approved for academic credit. Credit for this subject may not be used for any degree granted by IDSS.   

Course: IDS.971 Research in Technology and Policy  
Description: For research assistants in TPP when assigned research is not used for thesis, but is approved for academic credit. Credit for this subject may not be used for any degree granted by IDSS.   

Course: IDS.S00 Special Undergraduate Subject in Data, Systems, and Society  
Description: Opportunity for study of topics in Data, Systems, and Society not otherwise included in the curriculum. Offerings initiated by faculty on an ad hoc basis subject to IDSS approval.   

Course: IDS.S01 Special Undergraduate Subject in Data, Systems, and Society  
Description: Opportunity for study of topics in Data, Systems, and Society not otherwise included in the curriculum at MIT. Offerings are initiated by faculty on an ad-hoc basis subject to IDSS approval.   

Course: IDS.S10 Special Undergraduate Subject in Data, Systems, and Society  
Description: Opportunity for study of topics in Data, Systems, and Society not otherwise included in the curriculum at MIT. Offerings are initiated by faculty on an ad-hoc basis subject to IDSS approval.   

Course: IDS.S11 Special Undergraduate Subject in Data, Systems, and Society  
Description: Opportunity for study of topics in Data, Systems, and Society not otherwise included in the curriculum. Offerings initiated by faculty on an ad hoc basis subject to IDSS approval.   

Course: IDS.S20 Special Graduate Subject in Data, Systems, and Society  
Description: Opportunity for study of advanced topics in Data, Systems, and Society not otherwise included in the curriculum at MIT. Offerings are initiated by faculty on an ad-hoc basis subject to IDSS approval.   

Course: IDS.S21 Special Graduate Subject in Data, Systems, and Society  
Description: Opportunity for study of advanced topics in Data, Systems, and Society not otherwise included in the curriculum at MIT. Offerings are initiated by faculty on an ad-hoc basis subject to IDSS approval.   

Course: IDS.S22 Special Graduate Subject in Data, Systems, and Society  
Description: Opportunity for study of advanced topics in Data, Systems, and Society not otherwise included in the curriculum at MIT. Offerings are initiated by faculty on an ad-hoc basis subject to IDSS approval.   

Course: IDS.S23 Special Graduate Subject in Data, Systems, and Society  
Description: Opportunity for study of advanced topics in Data, Systems, and Society not otherwise included in the curriculum at MIT. Offerings are initiated by faculty on an ad-hoc basis subject to IDSS approval.   

Course: IDS.S24 Special Graduate Subject in Data, Systems, and Society  
Description: Opportunity for study of advanced topics in Data, Systems, and Society not otherwise included in the curriculum at MIT. Offerings are initiated by faculty on an ad-hoc basis subject to IDSS approval.   

Course: IDS.S30 Special Graduate Subject in Data, Systems, and Society  
Description: Opportunity for study of advanced topics in Data, Systems, and Society not otherwise included in the curriculum. Offerings are initiated by faculty on an ad-hoc basis subject to IDSS approval.   

Course: IDS.S31 Special Graduate Subject in Data, Systems, and Society  
Description: Opportunity for individual or group study of advanced topics in Data, Systems, and Society not otherwise included in the curriculum at MIT. Offerings are initiated by faculty on an ad-hoc basis subject to IDSS approval.   

Course: IDS.S32 Special Graduate Subject in Data, Systems, and Society  
Description: Opportunity for individual or group study of advanced topics in Data, Systems, and Society not otherwise included in the curriculum at MIT. Offerings are initiated by faculty on an ad-hoc basis subject to IDSS approval.   

Course: IDS.THG Graduate Thesis  
Description: Program of research, leading to the writing of an SM or PhD thesis to be arranged by the student with a member of the IDSS faculty. A minimum of 24 thesis units are required for the SM degree.   

Course: IDS.UR Undergraduate Research  
Description: Undergraduate research opportunities in Data, Systems, and Society.   

Course: IDS.URG Undergraduate Research  
Description: Undergraduate research opportunities in Data, Systems, and Society.   

